In the last lecture we styled our text inputs,
now let's say we want to have a standard text input which has the same styling all over the application.
Let's first of all style it appropriately to have that styling, for that,
let's say our text input which we style here with the input property should have a border width of
one, should have a border color of maybe a light gray-ish
look here, should then have some padding, maybe five and some margin, maybe eight.
If we now save all of that,
we let our application reload,
we get these inputs here.
Now you see on Android we still got that underlying color, to get rid of that,
we can go to the text input and actually add an extra property which is underlineColorAndroid,
this will simply be ignored on iOS which we can set to transparent.
We do that, then we should get rid of that on Android too,
now here we go.
So this could be our default text input
we want to use,
the problem is we defined our style here in the auth file, whenever we want to use it anywhere else,
let's say in the share place file where we also create or where we also handle some user input or in
the place input component
therefore, whenever we use it somewhere else, we have to redefine these styles.
So for styling reasons alone, it makes a lot of sense to create some custom components which basically
give you pre-styled elements and the best approach would be if you then could override the styles you
set up there. For that,
I'll go into my components folder and I'll create a new sub-folder which I'll name UI, to indicate
that this holds some UI components which don't have much logic in there but really are just basic building
blocks with some default styling. In there,
I'll add my default input, you can name it whatever you want with the DefaultInput.js file.
Now I'll turn this into a functional component,
default input, which receives some props therefore
and of course wants to return some jsx so I'm going to import react from react so that we can render
jsx
and ultimately, I'm going to export default input as the default of this file.
Now here my goal is to render a text input,
so I should probably import text input from react native and then I'm just going to grab the text input
I have here
from my auth component and render it here,
let me also distribute the properties over multiple lines.
Now obviously I don't want to hardcode the placeholder,
I'd expect to get this on props and I could say props placeholder but an easier approach is to simply
add some dynamic expression here and then use the spread operator to distribute any props
we don't pull out explicitly anywhere else over the text input,
this allows us to use this default input just like the normal text input and add any props that the
normal text input supports and we don't explicitly have to bind them here, so we can get rid of this.
I do want to bind my style here though and I do want to leave underlineColorAndroid here because my
default input shouldn't have that in this app
and now I also need to import stylesheet here to set up these default styles for the text input.
Let's go to the auth file and let's copy the entire styles object,
I can already remove input here
and let's go to the default input, add the entire styles object
and of course remove everything but the input. With that, we get our default styling set up here, we assign
it here then, styles input and with that, we have a reusable default input.
We can now go back to auth.js and import that so let's import default input with a capital D at the beginning
and let's move to our components folder to the UI folder and then to the default input file we just
created.
And now we can replace text input with default input,
we can still bind placeholder because we distribute the props on the default input but we can get rid
of these styles here because we don't need them anymore,
we can get rid of underlying color transparent because we also don't need that anymore,
we set this up by default in our input.
So now if we save this and we go back to the application, it looks just as it did before
but now we have this in a reusable component which of course ensures we can use this anywhere where
we want.
Now in the next lecture, I want to show you how we can combine this idea with basically replicating cascading
style sheet functionality, let's start with this in the next lecture.